---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: sentence
---

**MPox-Reckoners: Ready‑Reckoner Modelling Framework for MPox Clade Ib**

A ready‑reckoner modelling tool developed to characterise mpox Clade Ib transmission and control in England.
The code accompanies the paper: Targeted vaccination is effective for mpox clade Ib in England despite increased household transmission: predictions from a modelling study by Brooks-Pollock and Danon (2025) <https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.05.27.25328398v1>.

**Summary** - The ready reckoner framework is applied to Mpox using sexual contacts and household size from National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles 3 (NATSAL3).
- The impact of increasing household secondary attack rates (SAR) was explored, as associated with mpox clade Ib.
- There is a high degree of heterogeneity in individual reproduction numbers.
Individuals reporting both same sex and opposite sex sexual contacts disproportionately contributed to transmission potential.
- There is a minimal impact of increasing household SAR on the overall reproduction number, due to the structure of the sexual contact network and its coincidence with household structure in England.

This is designed as a rapid, network-informed modelling tool to inform strategic outbreak response.
This version is calibrated to mpox Clade Ib in England, however the framework is flexible and can be adapted to: - Other geographical settings informed by local contact survey data.

\- Other pathogens with analogous contact types relevant to pathogen-specific transmission routes.

\- Updated assumptions on vaccine effectiveness or transmission.

Data sources: National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles, 2010-2012 NATSAL III; Natsal-3

<https://doi.org/10.5255/UKDA-SN-7799-2>

The data are freely available through the UK Data Service website.

**Repository Contents**

Code:

**Description and Implementation**

-    Individual reproduction numbers (R_i) are calculated using a weighted sum across settings (household, same-sex, opposite-sex contacts), combining contact counts with setting-specific secondary attack rates.
    This is implemented in the function 'CalculateIndR' 

-   Population-level R_eff is computed by a weighted aggregation of R_i over the population distribution.
    This is implemented in the function 'CalcRvac' 

-   Vaccination reduces R_i according to efficacy against infection and transmission, differing between pre- and post-exposure scenarios.
    This is implemented in two function 'CalcPopRvacRandom' for the untargetted vaccination strategy and 'CalcPopRvacTargetted' for the targetted vaccination strategy.

-   The model simulates multiple vaccination scenarios to compare required coverage for control under different strategies and household attack rate assumptions.
    This is implemented in multiple wrapper functions that sweep across parameter sets.

To run the model and generate outputs, access and download the data from the UK Data Service. A minimal example script is provided in the file 'MinimalExampleScript.R'. 
All figures for the manuscript can be generated by running the code in the Figure1Figure2.qmd file. 

